
#  Return to no-schooling

Return to holiday

## Motivation 
Over the course of this half semester, we have been focusing on one application to illustrate the methods invented by Heckman and Vytlacil, that is return to education, return to college. Even as an individual who is actually interested in the topics, how Economics can be applied to do research around Education. I almost certainly swear that I have lost interests in knowing the return to college. Which is why now I want to propose something else. Return to holiday!

I think there has long been a debate about whether the French education system designated the right amount of holiday for students. And last year, Macron has revived this debate. He mentioned this reform of modifying the scholarly rhythm in France. This policy change invokes my interests. As usual, since it's a debate, there are two sides of this reform. I think it would be interesting to use the methods we have learned to analyze this policy change (ex-ante). 

## Status quo
[Does France have the longest school holiday?](https://www.lemonde.fr/les-decodeurs/article/2023/08/29/rythmes-scolaires-la-france-a-t-elle-les-plus-longues-vacances-en-europe_6186976_4355770.html)

## Proposal
- Shorten the summer holiday
- To compensate for less coursework in the normal school day afternoon. 

## Pros
- Alléger la journée de travail
- Battre contre l'accroissement des inégalités scolaires
- Rythmes des parents d’élèves

## Cons
- Teacher's pay and workload

## Treatment effect


### Outcome equation
Here, the treatment is the length of the summer holiday. The outcome is the student's (relative?) performance in the upcoming academic year.

Let us denote $D$ as the length of summer holiday.
$$ Y(D)=\mu_D(X)+U_D$$


The treatment parameter is $ATE(X)$

$$ E(Y(d_1)-Y(d_2)|X)$$

The conjecture or to say common sense is that financially xxx kids benefits more from the holiday than the less xxx ones.

Is there any self selection issue? 
For example, Germany has a shorter holiday than France. Is it because the neighbors do not benefit as much from the holiday as the French. 

But it is reasonable to say that it is exogenous.

## Policy change

Now the president is calling the grands vacances into question.
And wanting to put a new policy of shorter vocations. 

$$E(Y(d')-Y(d)|X)$$

The effect may be positive to some and negative to others.

But the $Y$ here is academic performance or something else? Mental health, physical fitness? 


## Two periods setting

### Period 0
Students performance before leaving school.

$$Y_0(0)$$ 
### Period 1
Performance after leaving school for an amount of time $D$. 
$$Y_1(D)$$

**Parrallel trend assumption**
For people that have different scores when leaving school, had there taken the same $D$. This is unlikely to be ture.

But if we condition on the characteristics $$X$$. Then people with the same $X$ will have the same change if they take the same $D$.

Assume this is true, we can estimate the effect of the policy change. The policy change from $D$ to $D'$. But this is ex-post study. How do we deal with ex-ante study?

We take a look at the other countries. Compare the two different $D_1$ and $D_2$, we can get the treatment effect for changing $D_1$ to $D_2$. Maybe we can postulate it into other ranges of changes (by imposing parametric form?)

Then this will just be an linear model with the change $\Delta Y$ on LHS and some $X$ on the RHS. Nothing more...

Now I will show you a bit of the background against which the two policies are brought up.

First it is about the length of holiday in France. It's the 7th in Europe and 1st in the small vocation (Toussaint, Noël, Hiver, Printemps) but it's actually 27th in the summer holiday.

Second, the vacances apprenantes initiative. because according to some survey, 1/4 kids do not go on a vocation. this initiative is to promote learning and activities during the holiday for all kids, especially the disadvantaged ones.





